IT SPECIALIST-IRIS Administrative Support--Bachelor's degree in business or technical field, two to five years work experience in related field, or equivalent amount of education and work experience. Excellent analytical abilities, problem-solving skills, computer skills, verbal and written communication skills and attention to detail. Preference will be given to candidates with experience in systems design, programming or business technology who have proven experience in leading small projects. Experience with applications security systems or SAP R/3 security a plus. Apply with cover letter, resume and references to: Neal Wormsley, 301 Andy Holt Tower, Knoxville, TN 37996-0100. 


POLICE OFFICER-Police Control-Pay Grade 33, $10.71 hr. 2 Regular, 2 F/T. 2 Driving - requires a valid TN driver's license. High school education required. Must be able to pass physical and psychological examinations and qualify with firearms. Must be able to certify as officer in the State of Tennessee after graduating an eight-week training school. 

RESEARCH ASSISTANT-Science Alliance/JICS-Master's degree in computer science or closely related field. Apply with application and resume to: Norma Manning, ORNL, P.O. Box 2008, Bldg. 4500N, Room 267, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-6232. 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATE-Center for Transportation Research-Web programmer needed. Minimum two years experience required. Must be proficient in Active Server Pages, JavaScript, and SQL Server. Other programming skills desired. Apply with cover letter and resume to: Don Alvic, 2360 Cherahala Blvd., Knoxville, TN 37932. 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATE II-Civil and Environmental Engineering-Master's degree in environmental engineering (or equivalent) with concentration in air quality management/pollution control or equivalent. Experience or training in the preparation of air pollution emission inventories, experience with database management systems, experience and familiarity with EPA National Emission Inventory System. Apply with cover letter, resume and references to: Dr. Wayne Davis, 223 Perkins Hall, Knoxville, TN 37996-2010. 

RESEARCH SPECIALIST-Science Alliance/JICS-Ph.D. in physics and two years relevant experience required. Development of a first-principles based approach to calculate the transport properties of molecular and nano-structures under a finite bias voltage. Apply with cover letter, resume and references to: Norma Manning, ORNL/JICS, P. O. Box 2008, Bldg. 4500N, Room 267, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-6232. 


