Job Title: Web Designer, HGTV Online Position: Full Time 
 Contact: Human Resources 
                                      Location: Home And Garden Television 
              PO Box 50970 
                                      Fax: (No faxed resumes please) 
              Knoxville, TN 37950 	Email:n/a 
	                                      Phone: [no phone calls please]

 Position Requirements: 
 1. Education: College or equivalent.

 2. Experience: 2-4 years experience in online (multi-media, broadband and
 other electronic formats desirable). HTML, Freehand, Fire-
 works, PhotoShop, Flash, Dream Weaver necessary. Director,
 Premier, BB Edit, Sound Edit preferred.

 3. Equipment: MAX experience required.

 4. Skills/
 Abilities: Ability to concept and produce strategic design solutions in 
 often stressful situations under deadline pressures. Thrive
 in team invironment. Must possess excellent verbal communi-
 cations skills.

 THE E.W. SCRIPPS COMPANY IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER PROVIDING A
 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE THROUGH PRE-EMPLOYMENT SCREENING. 

 Job Description: This list is not exhaustive, duties may be added, 
 deleted or changed at any time without notice.

 1. Concept, design, implement graphic layout as well as navigations and 
 programming production that integrates graphic interfaces, fronts, artwork,
 illustration, photography, animation, video, audio, and all other design
 and mulitmedia elements on the site. Work with other web designers and 
 production manager as well as contract production artists, designers, 
 photographers, illustrators and programmers.

 2. Help coordinate graphic integration of HGTV Online advertisers, partners,
 sponsors and other revenue producers as well as editorial content and on 
 air programming, working with HGTV Online editorial team, advertisers, 
 HGTV marketing and programming departments and others to integrate HGTV
 Online with other HGTV and Scripps properties.

 3. Understand and implement usage of technical and software programming 
 features.

 4. Perform other duties as needed and as directed. 

 Date Listed:9/24/99 
                                                                           


 This page is updated weekly. All postings are current. 
 If you are interested in applying for this position, contact the person
 indicated. 
