170614
TOPICS

11:00 a.m. – 11:10 a.m. – Introduction
Todd Carpenter, Executive Director, NISO


11:10 a.m. – 11:45 a.m.  Opening Talk: Establishing the Landscape
Confirmed Speaker: Edward M. Corrado (participating in his personal capacity), Associate University Librarian, Dudley Knox Library, Naval Postgraduate School
Many Libraries, Archives, and Museums have begun or are planning digitization and digital preservation initiatives. This presentation will help establish the landscape by introducing the 

topics of digitization and digital preservation. Various ways that digitization and longterm digital preservation are complementary to each other and how they differ will be discussed.
Edward M. Corrado* is Associate University Librarian at the Dudley Knox Library, Naval Postgraduate School. He is co-author of the monograph Digital Preservation for Libraries, Archives, 

and Museums, which is now in its second edition. He holds a Masters of Library Service from Rutgers University and B.A. in Mathematics from Caldwell University. *participating in his 

personal capacity
 
11:45 a.m. – 12:15 p.m.  IIIF: A Revolutionary Framework for Digital Images on the Web
Confirmed Speaker(s):  Tom Cramer, Chief Technology Strategist, Stanford University Libraries, and Stuart Snydman, Associate Director for Digital Strategies, Stanford University Libraries 
IIIF, the International Image Interoperability Framework, is a revolutionary approach for delivering digital images. It defines a small set of APIs (application programming interfaces) for 

presenting and manipulating image-based resources--such as books, newspapers, manuscripts, maps, musical scores and visual resources—via standard Web technologies. It dramatically reduces 

the friction of delivering images, and introduces radical new capabilities for viewing, using and interacting with images on the Web. Launched in 2011, IIIF was born out of and is backed by 

some of the world’s leading research and cultural heritage institutions, and now comprises hundreds of adopters worldwide, scores of compatible software systems, and hundreds of millions of 

interoperable images. This presentation will introduce IIIF, and demonstrate some of the ways libraries, archives and museums are leveraging it for delivering their digital resources.
Tom Cramer is the Chief Technology Strategist and Assistant University Librarian for the Stanford University Libraries, where he directs the technical development and delivery of Stanford’s 

digital library services, including digitization, management, preservation and access of digital resources that support teaching, learning and research. He is the founder of the 

International Image Interoperability Framework (IIIF), and a leader in numerous open source projects, including the Hydra Project (now Samvera); Blacklight and the Fedora Repository. He 

serves on the steering committees for the Preservation & Archiving Special Interest Group (PASIG), Open Repositories, and the International Internet Preservation Consortium (IIPC).
 
 
12:15 p.m. – 12:45 p.m.  A look forward and a look back at digitization in Libraries, Archives, and Museums 
Confirmed Speaker: Chad Hutchens, Head, Digital Collections, University of Wyoming
Digitization of 2D content is nothing new at this point in time, but did our best practices developed decades ago do what we intended them to do? What’s next on the horizon for the 

digitization of non-traditional materials like those found in museums and smaller scientific collections? Do we have preservation standards outlined for 3D modelling and other new imagery 

techniques such as focal stacking, image tiling, RTI (Reflectance Transformation Imagery), and related techniques such as photogrammetry? How do we preserve an online virtual reality 

exhibition for the future and should we? More importantly, are the specialists in those disciplines thinking about preservation the same way libraries and archives have and if not, how do 

we begin to have those conversations?

Chad Hutchens is currently the Head of Digital Collections at the University of Wyoming Libraries where his department is engaged with traditional 2D digitization, preservation of born-

digital research & data, as well as 3D digitization of paleontological collections in collaboration with the UW Geological Museum.
12:45 p.m. – 1:45 p.m.     Break for Lunch
 
1:45 p.m. – 2:45 p.m. Technologies in Use and in The Wings (2 speakers)
Confirmed Speaker: Julia Corrin, University Archivist, Carnegie Mellon University; Chris Strasbaugh, Digital Resource Archivist and Curator, The Ohio State University
Future-Proofing: Building Flexibility into Your Digitization Space
Chris Strasbaugh, Digital Resource Archivist and Curator, The Ohio State University

The age-old advice for building a digitization center is very focused on scanners. While they do have a place in many centers and workflows, they are burdened by being very inflexible. 

Digitization is so much more than scanners. I propose building flexibility into your workflow via items such as DSLR cameras, Raspberry Pi computers, copy stands, PVC pipe, creativity, and 

much more to build centers that can be as unique as the projects that cross your desk. While specific setups (and shopping lists) will be discussed, it is also about the questions that need 

to be asked to determine what you need. Is it a public or staff-only space? 2d or 3d? What type of materials and how large? How big is your space? What do you already have that can be 

repurposed? This practical talk will get you started towards building the perfect digitization center for you know while providing flexibility for the future.
As photographer, art historian, and now digital curator, Chris Strasbaugh has always been driven to document and preserve cultural heritage. His work as a Digital Library Archivist and 

Curator at the Knowlton School of Architecture, Landscape Architecture, and City and Regional Planning at The Ohio State University is a perfect mix of his passions in preservation, 

photography, emerging technology, open access, and metadata management. He works with an archive of unique work, documenting the history of the various programs in the Knowlton School as 

well as highlighting new work that showcases the students in the programs.
What Comes After: Description, Access, and Long-Term Care of Digital Collections 
Julia Corrin, University Archivist, Carnegie Mellon University
A successful digitization project is not just about creating beautiful images, but also about making certain that those same images are accessible. When planning a digitization project, 

institutions must be sure to include adequate resources for description and long-term preservation. This presentation will draw upon Carnegie Mellon’s twenty-year experience building 

digital collections, and the unexpected challenges faced while managing and maintaining collections for long-term preservation. Topics discussed in this presentation will include options 

for metadata capture and creation, low-cost access tools, and a variety of preservation choices.
Julia Corrin currently serves as the University Archivist at Carnegie Mellon University. In addition to managing the University’s physical history, she helps oversee an online repository 

that holds over 3 million pages of digitized content. She previously served as the Political Collections and Access Archivist at Arkansas State University and received her MSI from the 

University of Michigan.
 
2:45 p.m. - 3:15 p.m.  Development of a Revolutionary Scanning Device
Confirmed Speaker: Scott Eldredge, Digital Initiatives Program Manager, Brigham Young University
Libraries and archives around the world are faced with increasing pressure to digitize their special collections materials for preservation and online access. For most institutions, a major 

challenge to digital conversion is the amount of time required to scan large collections of often-fragile cultural heritage materials. In an effort to alleviate this problem, the Lee 

Library at Brigham Young University teamed up with a student Capstone team from the Ira Fulton College of Engineering. The result was a working prototype of a revolutionary scanning device 

designed to significantly increase throughput on scanning of many types of cultural heritage materials, including unbound manuscripts, photographs and negatives. This new scanning device 

uses digital backs, web cams, lasers, a giant mousepad, and spinning parts to produce FADGI 4-star compliant images at speeds similar to the conveyor belt scanning system famously in use by 

the Smithsonian Institution. However, this innovative system has the advantages of a smaller footprint, lower cost, the ability to scan transparent media, and can be operated by one person. 

Testing indicates that a variety of document types can be safely scanned at speeds eight to ten times faster than currently achieved with traditional flatbed scanners. Patents on the design 

are pending and the Lee Library is currently seeking industry partners to work on further development and distribution of this technology to libraries and archives everywhere.
Scott Eldredge has been the Digital Initiatives Program Manager at Brigham Young University since 1997. He holds an M.A. in history from Brigham Young University and is a member of the 

Academy of Certified Archivists. He has served terms as chair of the digitization committees of the Greater Western Library Alliance, the Utah Academic Library Consortium, and the 

Consortium of Church Libraries and Archives. He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Networked Digital Library of Theses and Dissertations.
3:15 p.m. - 3:30 p.m.  Break
 
3:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Three Case Studies
Barbara Laufersweiler, Coordinator, Digitization Lab and Project Manager, Knowledge Services, The University of Oklahoma Libraries
Integrating Images from the History of Medicine into NLM Digital Collections
Jennifer Diffin, Head, Library Technology Services Section, ‎National Library of Medicine (NLM) and Doron Shalvi, Systems Architect, CSRA
In this case study, the National Library of Medicine will discuss its efforts to integrate its Images from the History of Medicine database into its main online portal, NLM Digital 

Collections. The presenters will described the impetus behind the effort, the reasons for integrating the systems, and the technical approach that was taken to accomplish the integration.
Jennifer Diffin is Head of the Library Technology Services Section at the National Library of Medicine where she currently Chairs the Digital Repository Working Group. She also oversees 

management of the ILS, discovery, OpenURL resolver, and other homegrown systems as well as technical support for the Technical Services Division. She holds an MS in Library Science from 

Simmons College and has over 15 years’ experience as a systems librarian.

Doron Shalvi is a Systems Architect with CSRA, providing full-time support to NLM, with twenty years of experience in designing systems for data management, preservation, access and 

analysis. He is the system architect for NLM’s Digital Repository, which digitally preserves and makes available online books, manuscripts, documents, films, videos, images, maps, software, 

data, and other items. His interests are in data analysis, parallel processing, and system architecture. He holds an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland.
Exploring Every Inch of Harrisonburg: The Robert J. Sullivan Papers
Confirmed Speakers: Grace L. Barth, MLIS, Head of Digital Collections, Libraries & Educational Technologies and Kate Morris, Head of Special Collections, Libraries & Educational 

Technologies, James Madison University
Acquired by JMU Special Collections in 2014, the Robert J. Sullivan Papers include photographs and over eleven hundred slides documenting the city of Harrisonburg, Virginia during a 

critical period of growth during urban renewal initiatives from the mid-to-late 20th century. While digitization of the images from this collection allowed us to share it with researchers 

and the local community, the process of facilitating access revealed several unexpected challenges. Quick adaptability and establishing valuable partnerships were among the many factors 

that allowed for the successful completion of this project.
Grace leads the Digital Collections department at James Madison University Libraries & Educational Technologies, and previously directed the Visual Resources Center in JMU’s School of Art, 

Design & Art History. She has extensive experience with digitization of image collections, particularly 35mm slides, and holds a Master of Library and Information Science from the 

University of South Carolina.

As Head of Special Collections at James Madison University Libraries & Educational Technologies, Kate provides leadership and works to collect and develop unique collections that document 

the history of the central Shenandoah Valley of Virginia as well as the history of the university. She works with faculty to integrate Special Collections materials into coursework and to 

acquire rare materials and unique collections that support the curriculum. Kate received her MSIS from SUNY Albany and her B.A. from James Madison University.
* * * * * * * * *
4:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Roundtable Discussion 
Moderated by: Todd Carpenter, Executive Director, NISO
 
